# Core Concepts in Repris

## Observations

An observation is a single measurement, such as the time taken to complete a task.

## Samplers

A sampler is a mechanism to generate a specific kind of observation. For example, a stopwatch is a sampler that observes time intervals.

## Samples

A sample is a set of observations generated by a sampler during a benchmark run.

## Benchmarks

A benchmark brings together a user-supplied function and a sampler to collect measurements. Each successful run of a benchmark generates a sample, and the samples from repeated runs of a benchmark are all stored for future analysis.

## Conflations

A conflation is a statistical consolidation of the samples collected from multiple runs of a benchmark.

## Index

The index stores the samples of each benchmark run. You can use the index to build an accurate snapshot of the performance of your project in its current state. This is similar to the git index where changes are stored before being committed to the repository.

## Snapshots

Repris snapshots are `.sample` files which capture the state of each benchmark (with their samples and conflations) at a particular point in time. These can then be committed to your repository just like Jest `.snap` snapshot files.

At a later stage two or more snapshots of the same fixture can be compared and analyzed with the `compare` command.

## Annotations

An annotation is a piece of meta-data associated with samples, conflations, benchmarks, etc. For example, the median of a sample is a statistic which in Repris is stored as an annotation of that sample. Annotations are usually used to present summary information in Repris reports.
